Charles Lyell (November 14 1797 – February 22 1875) a Scottish geologist who demonstrated the power of known natural causes within the context of explaining Earth's history. 
He is the author of Principles of Geology (1830–33), which presented to a wide public audience the idea that Earth was shaped by the same natural processes still in operation today, operating at similar intensities. The philosopher William Whewell termed this gradualistic view "uniformitarianism" and contrasted it with catastrophism, which had been championed by Georges Cuvier and was more universally accepted. 
His skilled argumentation in Principles of Geology convinced a wide range of readers of the significance of "deep time" applied to understanding Earth and Earth's environment.  Lyell's scientific contributions included thoughtfull concideration of the concept of shifting boundaries between oceans and continents could be used to explain long-term variations in temperature and rainfall. 
Lyell also gave influential explanations of earthquakes and developed the theory of gradual "backed up-building" of volcanoes. In stratigraphy his division of the Tertiary period into the Pliocene, Miocene, and Eocene was highly influential.
In addition, his creation of a separate period for human history is widely cited as the foundation for the modern discussion regarding naming the current period, clearly dominated by man, the Anthropocene.  Lyell, as James Hutton, favoured an indefinitely long age for the Earth, despite evidence suggesting an old but finite age.
He was a close friend of Charles Darwin, and contributed significantly to Darwin's thinking on the processes involved in evolution. Lyell helped to arrange the simultaneous publication in 1858 of papers by Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace on natural selection. He later published evidence from geology of the time man had existed on Earth.


Lyell was born into a wealthy family, on 14 November 1797, at the family's estate house, Kinnordy House, near Kirriemuir in Forfarshire.

Lyell entered Exeter College, Oxford, in 1816, and attended William Buckland's geological lectures. He graduated with a BA Hons. second class degree in classics, in December 1819, and gained his M.A. 1821.

After graduation he took up law as a profession, entering Lincoln's Inn in 1820.

In 1832, Lyell married Mary Horner in Bonn, daughter of Leonard Horner (1785–1864), also associated with the Geological Society of London. The new couple spent their honeymoon in Switzerland and Italy on a geological tour of the area.

During the 1840s, Lyell travelled to the United States and Canada, and wrote two popular travel-and-geology books: Travels in North America (1845) and A Second Visit to the United States (1849).

Sir Charles Lyell was knighted in 1848. He was awarded the Copley Medal of the Royal Society in 1858 and the Wollaston Medal of the Geological Society in 1866.

Principles of Geology, Lyell's first book, was also his most famous, most influential, and most important. First published in three volumes in 1830–33, it established Lyell's credentials as an important geological theorist and propounded the doctrine of uniformitarianism.

Lyell's wife died in 1873, and two years later (in 1875) Lyell himself died as he was revising the twelfth edition of Principles.