Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (February 8 1834-February 2 1907) a Russian chemist and inventor best remembered for formulating the Periodic Law and creating a farsighted version of the periodic table of elements.
He used the Periodic Law not only to correct the then-accepted properties of some known elements but, also to predict the properties of eight elements that were yet to be discovered.
Mendeleev was born in the village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk in Siberia, to Ivan Pavlovich Mendeleev and Maria Dmitrievna Mendeleeva.
Mendeleev was the youngest of 17 siblings, of whom "only 14 stayed alive to be baptized" according to Mendeleev's brother Pavel, meaning the others died soon after their birth. His father became blind and lost his teaching position. 
His mother was forced to work and she restarted her family's abandoned glass factory. 
At the age of 13, after the passing of his father and the destruction of his mother's factory by fire, Mendeleev attended the Gymnasium in Tobolsk.

In 1849, his mother took Mendeleev across Russia from Siberia to Moscow with the aim of getting Mendeleev enrolled at the Moscow University. The university in Moscow did not accept him. The mother and son continued to Saint Petersburg to the father's alma mater. The now poor Mendeleev family relocated to Saint Petersburg, where he entered the Main Pedagogical Institute in 1850. After graduation, he contracted tuberculosis, causing him to move to the Crimean Peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea in 1855. While there, he became a science master of the 1st Simferopol Gymnasium. In 1857, he returned to Saint Petersburg with fully restored health.
Between 1859 and 1861, he worked on the capillarity of liquids and the workings of the spectroscope in Heidelberg. 
Later in 1861, he published a textbook named Organic Chemistry. This won him the Demidov Prize of the Petersburg Academy of Sciences.
On 4 April 1862, he became engaged to Feozva Nikitichna Leshcheva, and they married on 27 April 1862 at Nikolaev Engineering Institute's church in Saint Petersburg.

Mendeleev became a professor at the Saint Petersburg Technological Institute and Saint Petersburg State University in 1864, and 1865. In 1865, he became Doctor of Science for his dissertation "On the Combinations of Water with Alcohol". 

In 1867, Mendeleev wrote the definitive textbook of his time: Principles of Chemistry.  As he attempted to classify the elements according to their chemical properties, he noticed patterns that led him to postulate his periodic table; he claimed to have envisioned the complete arrangement of the elements in a dream.
He achieved tenure in 1867 at St. Petersburg University and started to teach inorganic chemistry. By 1871, he had transformed Saint Petersburg into an internationally recognized center for chemistry research


February 8, 1834 Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev was born in the village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk in Siberia.

At the age of 13, after the passing of his father and the destruction of his mother's factory by fire, Mendeleev attended the Gymnasium in Tobolsk.

In 1849, his mother took Mendeleev across Russia from Siberia to Moscow with the aim of getting Mendeleev enrolled at the Moscow University. The university in Moscow did not accept him.

He entered the Main Pedagogical Institute in 1850.

In 1855, he contracted tuberculosis, precipitating a move to the Crimean Peninsula on the northern coast of the Black Sea.

Between 1859 and 1861, he worked on the capillarity of liquids and the workings of the spectroscope in Heidelberg.

On 4 April 1862, he became engaged to Feozva Nikitichna Leshcheva, and they married on 27 April 1862 at Nikolaev Engineering Institute's church in Saint Petersburg, his place of employment.

In 1867, Mendeleev wrote the definitive textbook of his time: Principles of Chemistry.

As he attempted to classify the elements according to their chemical properties, he noticed patterns that led him to postulate his periodic table; he claimed to have envisioned the complete arrangement of the elements in a dream.

In 1907, Mendeleev died at the age of 72 in Saint Petersburg from influenza.
