Albert Einstein 14 March 1879 to 18 April 1955)
A German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity. Considered, alongside quantum mechanics, as one of the two pillars of modern physics. He is best known to the general public for his mass energy equivalence formula E = mc2. He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1921 for his discovery  of the photoelectric effect.

The son of a salesman, young Albert was born in Germany, but moved to Switzerland in 1895. Einstein received his academic teaching diploma from the Swiss Federal Polytechnic School in Zurich in 1900 specializing in physics and mathematics . The following year, he acquired Swiss citizenship. After initially struggling to find work, from 1902 to 1909 he was employed as a patent examiner at the Swiss Patent Office in Bern.

Einstein posited that the laws of classical mechanics could no longer be reconciled with those of the electromagnetic field. This led him to develop his special theory of relativity while working as a patent clerk. 
In 1905, he published four papers, the first outlined the photoelectric effect, the second explained Brownian motion, the third introduced special relativity, and the fourth mass energy equivalence. During the same year he was awarded a PhD by the University of Zurich.

Einstein's works gradually came to be recognized by the scientific community as significant advancements. In 1914, he was elected to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin, where he remained for 19 years. Soon after publishing his work on special relativity, Einstein began working to extend the theory to gravitational fields; leading him to publish his paper on general relativity in 1916, introducing his theory of gravitation. He continued to work on the  problems of statistical mechanics and quantum theory, leading to his explanations of particle theory and the motion of molecules. He also investigated the thermal properties of light and the quantum theory of radiation, the basics of modern laser technology. In 1917, he applied the general theory of relativity to model the structure of the universe.

In 1933, while visiting the United States, Adolf Hitler came to power. Because of his Jewish background, Einstein chose to remain in the United States. He became an American citizen in 1940. On the eve of World War II, he endorsed a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt alerting him to the potential German nuclear weapons program and recommending that the US begin similar research. Einstein supported the Allies, but generally supported the idea that  nuclear weapons were the worst possible choice for humanity's future. Stating in a post World War 2 interview he didn't know World War 3 would be fought but World War 4 would be fought with sticks and stones. 

Einstein was affiliated with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, until his death in 1955. He published more than 300 scientific papers and more than 150 non-scientific works. His achievements have made the word "Einstein" synonymous with "genius".
