Steven William Hawking an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, author and director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge at the time of his death. He was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge between 1979 and 2009.
He was born in Oxford into a family of doctors. His university education began at University College, where he received a first-class BA (Hons.) degree in physics. His graduate work at Trinity Hall, Cambridge culminated in PhD's in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing general relativity and cosmology. He was diagnosed with  amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or Lou Gehrig's disease at about this time. A disorder that gradually paralyzed him over the decades.  After the loss of his speech, he was able to communicate through a speech-generating device—initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.
Dr. Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity and the ground breaking hypothesis that black holes emit radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.
His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times bestseller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, he was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died on 14 March 2018 at the age of 76.

