Antonie Philips van Leeuwenhoek October 24 1632 –  August 26 1723) a Dutch businessman and scientist during the Golden Age of Dutch science and technology (c. 1590s - 1720s).  
Though largely self-taught, Van Leeuwenhoek is best known for his pioneering work in microscopy and for his contributions toward the establishment of microbiology as a scientific discipline.
Raised in Delft, Dutch Republic, van Leeuwenhoek worked as a draper in his youth and founded his own shop in 1654. He became well recognized in municipal politics and developed an interest in lensmaking. 
In the 1670s he began observing microbial life, a feat made possible through the use of his microscope. van Leeuwenhoek's microscope is one of the notable achievements of the Golden Age of Dutch science and technology.
Using single-lensed microscopes of his own design and manufacture, van Leeuwenhoek was the first to experiment with microbes, which he originally referred to as dierkens Dutch for small animals. 
Through his experiments, he was first to relatively determine microscopic animal sizes and was also the first to document microscopic observations of muscle fibers, bacteria, spermatozoa, red blood cells, crystals in gouty tophi, and blood flow in capillaries. 
Antonie Philips van Leeuwenhoek did not write any books, his discoveries came to light through correspondence with the Royal Society, who published his letters.


Antonie van Leeuwenhoek was born in Delft, Dutch Republic, on 24 October 1632.

Van Leeuwenhoek married Barbara de Mey in July 1654, with whom he fathered one surviving daughter, Maria (four other children died in infancy).

He opened a draper's shop, which he ran throughout the 1650s

Van Leeuwenhoek's interest in microscopes and a familiarity with glass processing led to one of the most significant, and simultaneously well-hidden, technical insights in the history of science allowing the creation of very high-quality glass lenses.

Van Leeuwenhoek's observations were fully acknowledged by the Royal Society in 1677.

By the end of the seventeenth century, van Leeuwenhoek had a virtual monopoly on microscopic study and discovery.

Van Leeuwenhoek's manufacturing secret was kept untill C.L. Strong in 1957 used thi glass thread fusing instead of polishing, successfully created woeking samples of a van Leeuwenhoek design microscope.

He died at the age of 90, on August 26 1723, and was buried four days later in the Oude Kerk in Delft