James Clerk Maxwell (June 13 1831 – November 5 1879) a Scottish mathematical physisist whose most notable achievement was to formulate the classical theory of electromagnetic radiation, bringing together for the first time electricity, magnetism, and light as different manifestations of the same phenomenon.
Maxwell's equations for electromagnetism have been called the second great unification in physics the first realised by Isaac Newton.
With the publication of "A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field" in 1865, Maxwell demonstrated that electric and magnetic fields travel through space as waves moving at the speed of light. 
He proposed that light is an undulation in the same medium that is the cause of electric and magnetic phenomena. The unification of light and electrical phenomena led to his prediction of the existence of radio waves.  Maxwell is also regarded as a founder of the modern field of electrical engineering.
He helped develop the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution, a statistical means of describing aspects of the kinetic theory of gases. He is also known for presenting the first durable colour photograph in 1861 and for his foundational work on analysing the rigidity of rod-and-joint frameworks (trusses) like those in many bridges.
His discoveries helped usher in the era of modern physics, laying the foundation for such fields as special relativity and quantum mechanics. Many physicists regard Maxwell as the 19th-century scientist having the greatest influence on 20th-century physics. His contributions to the science are considered by many to be of the same magnitude as those of Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein.
In the millennium poll—a survey of the 100 most prominent physicists—Maxwell was voted the third greatest physicist of all time, behind only Newton and Einstein. On the centenary of Maxwell's birthday, Einstein described Maxwell's work as the "most profound and the most fruitful that physics has experienced since the time of Newton".  When Einstein visited the University of Cambridge in 1922, he stated "I stand on the shoulders of Maxwell".

James Clerk Maxwell was born on 13 June 1831 at 14 India Street, Edinburgh, to John Clerk Maxwell and Frances Cay.

Maxwell was sent to the prestigious Edinburgh Academy.

Maxwell was fascinated by geometry at an early age, rediscovering the regular polyhedra before he received any formal instruction.

Maxwell left the Academy in 1847 at age 16 and began attending classes at the University of Edinburgh

In October 1850, already an accomplished mathematician, Maxwell left Scotland for the University of Cambridge.

In 1854, Maxwell graduated from Trinity with a degree in mathematics. He scored second highest in the final examination, coming behind Edward Routh and earning himself the title of Second Wrangler.

Maxwell was made a fellow of Trinity on 10 October 1855, sooner than was the norm, and was asked to prepare lectures on hydrostatics and optics and to set examination papers.

In 1860, Maxwell was granted the Chair of Natural Philosophy at King's College, London.

In 1865 Maxwell resigned the chair at King's College, London, and returned to Glenlair.

Maxwell died in Cambridge of abdominal cancer on 5 November 1879 at the age of 48.
